docs: add best practices interviewing deaf and hoh candidates (#824)
cncf/tag-contributor-strategy: website/content/accessibility/deaf-and-hard-of-hearing/best-practices-interviewing-deaf-hoh-candidates/_index.md

---
title: "Best practices for Interviewing Deaf or Hard of Hearing Candidates"
date: 2025-09-20
description: >
  A Guide for Employers
---
### Introduction

> Accommodation needs will depend on the interviewee. Deaf individuals may use sign language or speak and lip-read, or use captions and write, while hard of hearing interviewees hear but also rely on additional cues (e.g., lip-reading, captions). In-person or virtual interviews offer different opportunities and challenges, so please be sure to read through all relevant sections ahead of time so you have time to ask the interviewee for necessary accommodations and set everything up to ensure a smooth interview for both parties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accommodation needs vary depending on the interviewee. Deaf individuals may use sign language, speak and lip-read, use captions, or communicate in writing. Hard of hearing interviewees may hear but still rely on additional cues (e.g., lip-reading, captions). In-person and virtual interviews each present unique opportunities and challenges. Please review all relevant sections in advance so you have time to ask the interviewee about necessary accommodations and set everything up to ensure a smooth experience for both parties.
```

#### Never assume; always ask!
> When it comes to interviewing a deaf or hard of hearing candidate, the most important thing is **never to assume and always to ask the candidate about their needs and preferences**. Always ask the deaf candidate directly (or via the HR or accessibility team) what accommodations and communication methods work best for them.

> Job interviews are stressful enough, and if you put a candidate in an uncomfortable situation, it will jeopardize their chances of a fair interview process. Deaf and hard of hearing individuals already face enough barriers. Please try to make the process as smooth as possible **in each interview stage** to ensure their full participation and optimal performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Job interviews are stressful enough, and placing a candidate in an uncomfortable situation may jeopardize their chances of a fair process. Deaf and hard of hearing individuals already face many barriers. Please do your best to make the process smooth **at every stage of the interview** to ensure their full participation and optimal performance.

```
